.Dd $Mdocdate: March 21 2015 $
.Dt CMS_ENCRYPT 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm CMS_encrypt
.Nd create a CMS envelopedData structure
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/cms.h
.Ft CMS_ContentInfo *
.Fo CMS_encrypt
.Fa "STACK_OF(X509) *certs"
.Fa "BIO *in"
.Fa "const EVP_CIPHER *cipher"
.Fa "unsigned int flags"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn CMS_encrypt
creates and returns a CMS EnvelopedData structure.
.Fa certs
is a list of recipient certificates.
.Fa in
is the content to be encrypted.
.Fa cipher
is the symmetric cipher to use.
.Fa flags
is an optional set of flags.
.Sh NOTES
Only certificates carrying RSA keys are supported so the recipient
certificates supplied to this function must all contain RSA public keys,
though they do not have to be signed using the RSA algorithm.
.Pp
The algorithm passed in the
.Fa cipher
parameter must support ASN1 encoding of its parameters.
.Pp
Many browsers implement a "sign and encrypt" option which is simply an
S/MIME envelopedData containing an S/MIME signed message.
This can be readily produced by storing the S/MIME signed message in a
memory BIO and passing it to
.Fn CMS_encrypt .
.Pp
The following flags can be passed in the
.Fa flags
parameter:
.Pp
If the
.Dv CMS_TEXT
flag is set, MIME headers for type
.Sy text/plain
are prepended to the data.
.Pp
Normally the supplied content is translated into MIME canonical format
(as required by the S/MIME specifications); if
.Dv CMS_BINARY
is set, no translation occurs.
This option should be used if the supplied data is in binary format;
otherwise the translation will corrupt it.
If
.Dv CMS_BINARY
is set then
.Dv CMS_TEXT
is ignored.
.Pp
OpenSSL will by default identify recipient certificates using issuer
name and serial number.
If
.Dv CMS_USE_KEYID
is set, it will use the subject key identifier value instead.
An error occurs if all recipient certificates do not have a subject key
identifier extension.
.Pp
If the
.Dv CMS_STREAM
flag is set, a partial
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure is returned suitable for streaming I/O: no data is read from the
.Vt BIO
.Fa in .
.Pp
If the
.Dv CMS_PARTIAL
flag is set, a partial
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure is returned to which additional recipients and attributes can
be added before finalization.
.Pp
The data being encrypted is included in the
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure, unless
.Dv CMS_DETACHED
is set, in which case it is omitted.
This is rarely used in practice and is not supported by
.Xr SMIME_write_CMS 3 .
.Pp
If the flag
.Dv CMS_STREAM
is set, the returned
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure is
.Em not
complete and outputting its contents via a function that does not
properly finalize the
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure will give unpredictable results.
.Pp
Several functions including
.Xr SMIME_write_CMS 3 ,
.Xr i2d_CMS_bio_stream 3 ,
.Xr PEM_write_bio_CMS_stream 3
finalize the structure.
Alternatively finalization can be performed by obtaining the streaming
ASN1
.Vt BIO
directly using
.Xr BIO_new_CMS 3 .
.Pp
The recipients specified in
.Fa certs
use a CMS KeyTransRecipientInfo info structure.
KEKRecipientInfo is also supported using the flag
.Dv CMS_PARTIAL
and
.Xr CMS_add0_recipient_key 3 .
.Pp
The parameter
.Fa certs
may be
.Dv NULL
if
.Dv CMS_PARTIAL
is set and recipients are added later using
.Xr CMS_add1_recipient_cert 3
or
.Xr CMS_add0_recipient_key 3 .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn CMS_encrypt
returns either a
.Vt CMS_ContentInfo
structure or
.Dv NULL
if an error occurred.
The error can be obtained from
.Xr ERR_get_error 3 .
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr CMS_decrypt 3 ,
.Xr ERR_get_error 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn CMS_encrypt
was added to OpenSSL 0.9.8.
The
.Dv CMS_STREAM
flag was first supported in OpenSSL 1.0.0.
