.Dd $Mdocdate: October 09 2015 $
.Dt CONF_MODULES_LOAD_FILE 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm CONF_modules_load_file ,
.Nm CONF_modules_load
.Nd OpenSSL configuration functions
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/conf.h
.Ft int
.Fo CONF_modules_load_file
.Fa "const char *filename"
.Fa "const char *appname"
.Fa "unsigned long flags"
.Fc
.Ft int
.Fo CONF_modules_load
.Fa "const CONF *cnf"
.Fa "const char *appname"
.Fa "unsigned long flags"
.Fc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
The function
.Fn CONF_modules_load_file
configures OpenSSL using file
.Fa filename
and application name
.Fa appname .
If
.Fa filename
is
.Dv NULL ,
the standard OpenSSL configuration file is used.
If
.Fa appname
is
.Dv NULL ,
the standard OpenSSL application name
.Qq openssl_conf
is used.
The behaviour can be cutomized using
.Fa flags .
.Pp
.Fn CONF_modules_load
is idential to
.Fn CONF_modules_load_file
except it reads configuration information from
.Fa cnf .
.Pp
The following
.Fa flags
are currently recognized:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Dv CONF_MFLAGS_IGNORE_ERRORS
Ignore errors returned by individual configuration modules.
By default, the first module error is considered fatal and no further
modules are loaded.
.It Dv CONF_MFLAGS_SILENT
Do not add any error information.
By default, all module errors add error information to the error queue.
.It Dv CONF_MFLAGS_NO_DSO
Disable loading of configuration modules from DSOs.
.It Dv CONF_MFLAGS_IGNORE_MISSING_FILE
Let
.Fn CONF_modules_load_file
ignore missing configuration files.
By default, a missing configuration file returns an error.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
These functions return 1 for success and zero or a negative value for
failure.
If module errors are not ignored, the return code will reflect the return
value of the failing module (this will always be zero or negative).
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr CONF_free 3 ,
.Xr ERR 3 ,
.Xr OPENSSL_config 3
.Sh HISTORY
.Fn CONF_modules_load_file
and
.Fn CONF_modules_load
first appeared in OpenSSL 0.9.7.
