.\"
.\"	$OpenBSD: SSL_SESSION_get_time.3,v 1.2 2014/12/02 14:11:01 jmc Exp $
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: December 2 2014 $
.Dt SSL_SESSION_GET_TIME 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SSL_SESSION_get_time ,
.Nm SSL_SESSION_set_time ,
.Nm SSL_SESSION_get_timeout ,
.Nm SSL_SESSION_set_timeout ,
.Nm SSL_get_time ,
.Nm SSL_set_time ,
.Nm SSL_get_timeout ,
.Nm SSL_set_timeout
.Nd retrieve and manipulate session time and timeout settings
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_SESSION_get_time "const SSL_SESSION *s"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_SESSION_set_time "SSL_SESSION *s" "long tm"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_SESSION_get_timeout "const SSL_SESSION *s"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_SESSION_set_timeout "SSL_SESSION *s" "long tm"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_get_time "const SSL_SESSION *s"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_set_time "SSL_SESSION *s" "long tm"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_get_timeout "const SSL_SESSION *s"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_set_timeout "SSL_SESSION *s" "long tm"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn SSL_SESSION_get_time
returns the time at which the session
.Fa s
was established.
The time is given in seconds since the Epoch and therefore compatible to the
time delivered by the
.Xr time 3
call.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_SESSION_set_time
replaces the creation time of the session
.Fa s
with
the chosen value
.Fa tm .
.Pp
.Fn SSL_SESSION_get_timeout
returns the timeout value set for session
.Fa s
in seconds.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_SESSION_set_timeout
sets the timeout value for session
.Fa s
in seconds to
.Fa tm .
.Pp
The
.Fn SSL_get_time ,
.Fn SSL_set_time ,
.Fn SSL_get_timeout ,
and
.Fn SSL_set_timeout
functions are synonyms for the
.Fn SSL_SESSION_*
counterparts.
.Sh NOTES
Sessions are expired by examining the creation time and the timeout value.
Both are set at creation time of the session to the actual time and the default
timeout value at creation, respectively, as set by
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_timeout 3 .
Using these functions it is possible to extend or shorten the lifetime of the
session.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn SSL_SESSION_get_time
and
.Fn SSL_SESSION_get_timeout
return the currently valid values.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_SESSION_set_time
and
.Fn SSL_SESSION_set_timeout
return 1 on success.
.Pp
If any of the function is passed the
.Dv NULL
pointer for the session
.Fa s ,
0 is returned.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssl 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_timeout 3 ,
.Xr SSL_get_default_timeout 3
