.\"
.\"	$OpenBSD$
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: October 12 2014 $
.Dt SSL_CIPHER_GET_NAME 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SSL_CIPHER_get_name ,
.Nm SSL_CIPHER_get_bits ,
.Nm SSL_CIPHER_get_version ,
.Nm SSL_CIPHER_description
.Nd get SSL_CIPHER properties
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft const char *
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_get_name "const SSL_CIPHER *cipher"
.Ft int
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_get_bits "const SSL_CIPHER *cipher" "int *alg_bits"
.Ft char *
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_get_version "const SSL_CIPHER *cipher"
.Ft char *
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_description "const SSL_CIPHER *cipher" "char *buf" "int size"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_get_name
returns a pointer to the name of
.Fa cipher .
If the
argument is the
.Dv NULL
pointer, a pointer to the constant value
.Qq NONE
is returned.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_get_bits
returns the number of secret bits used for
.Fa cipher .
If
.Fa alg_bits
is not
.Dv NULL ,
it contains the number of bits processed by the
chosen algorithm.
If
.Fa cipher
is
.Dv NULL ,
0 is returned.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_get_version
returns a string which indicates the SSL/TLS protocol version that first
defined the cipher.
This is currently
.Qq SSLv2
or
.Qq TLSv1/SSLv3 .
In some cases it should possibly return
.Qq TLSv1.2
but the function does not; use
.Xr SSL_CIPHER_description 3
instead.
If
.Fa cipher
is
.Dv NULL ,
.Qq (NONE)
is returned.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_description
returns a textual description of the cipher used into the buffer
.Fa buf
of length
.Fa len
provided.
If
.Fa buf
is
.Dv NULL ,
a buffer is allocated using
.Xr asprintf 3 ;
that buffer should be freed using the
.Xr free 3
function.
If
.Fa len
is too small, or if
.Fa buf
is
.Dv NULL
and the allocation fails, a pointer to the string
.Qq Buffer too small
is returned.
.Sh NOTES
The number of bits processed can be different from the secret bits.
For example, an export cipher like EXP-RC4-MD5 has only 40 secret bits.
The algorithm does use the full 128 bits (which would be returned for
.Fa alg_bits ) ,
but 88 bits are fixed.
The search space is hence only 40 bits.
.Pp
The string returned by
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_description
in case of success consists
of cleartext information separated by one or more blanks in the following
sequence:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Aq Ar ciphername
Textual representation of the cipher name.
.It Aq Ar protocol version
Protocol version:
.Em SSLv2 ,
.Em SSLv3 ,
.Em TLSv1.2 .
The TLSv1.0 ciphers are flagged with SSLv3.
No new ciphers were added by TLSv1.1.
.It Kx= Ns Aq Ar key exchange
Key exchange method:
.Em RSA
(for export ciphers as
.Em RSA(512)
or
.Em RSA(1024) ) ,
.Em DH
(for export ciphers as
.Em DH(512)
or
.Em DH(1024) ) ,
.Em DH/RSA ,
.Em DH/DSS ,
.Em Fortezza .
.It Au= Ns Aq Ar authentication
Authentication method:
.Em RSA ,
.Em DSS ,
.Em DH ,
.Em None .
.Em None
is the representation of anonymous ciphers.
.It Enc= Ns Aq Ar symmetric encryption method
Encryption method with number of secret bits:
.Em DES(40) ,
.Em DES(56) ,
.Em 3DES(168) ,
.Em RC4(40) ,
.Em RC4(56) ,
.Em RC4(64) ,
.Em RC4(128) ,
.Em RC2(40) ,
.Em RC2(56) ,
.Em RC2(128) ,
.Em IDEA(128) ,
.Em Fortezza ,
.Em None .
.It Mac= Ns Aq Ar message authentication code
Message digest:
.Em MD5 ,
.Em SHA1 .
.It Aq Ar export flag
If the cipher is flagged exportable with respect to old US crypto
regulations, the word
.Dq export
is printed.
.El
.Sh RETURN VALUES
See
.Sx DESCRIPTION
.Sh EXAMPLES
Some examples for the output of
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_description :
.D1 "EDH-RSA-DES-CBC3-SHA    SSLv3 Kx=DH       Au=RSA  Enc=3DES(168) Mac=SHA1"
.D1 "EDH-DSS-DES-CBC3-SHA    SSLv3 Kx=DH       Au=DSS  Enc=3DES(168) Mac=SHA1"
.D1 "RC4-MD5                 SSLv3 Kx=RSA      Au=RSA  Enc=RC4(128)  Mac=MD5"
.D1 "EXP-RC4-MD5             SSLv3 Kx=RSA(512) Au=RSA  Enc=RC4(40)   Mac=MD5  export"
.Pp
A complete list can be retrieved by invoking the following command:
.Pp
.Dl $ openssl ciphers -v ALL
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openssl 1 ,
.Xr ssl 3 ,
.Xr SSL_get_ciphers 3 ,
.Xr SSL_get_current_cipher 3
.Sh BUGS
If
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_description
is called with
.Fa cipher
being
.Dv NULL ,
the library crashes.
.Pp
If
.Fn SSL_CIPHER_description
cannot handle a built-in cipher,
the according description of the cipher property is
.Qq unknown .
This case should not occur.
