.\"
.\"	$OpenBSD$
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: October 12 2014 $
.Dt SSL_CTX_SET_TMP_DH_CALLBACK 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh_callback ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh ,
.Nm SSL_set_tmp_dh_callback ,
.Nm SSL_set_tmp_dh
.Nd handle DH keys for ephemeral key exchange
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft void
.Fo SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh_callback
.Fa "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Fa "DH *(*tmp_dh_callback)(SSL *ssl, int is_export, int keylength)"
.Fc
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh "SSL_CTX *ctx" "DH *dh"
.Ft void
.Fo SSL_set_tmp_dh_callback
.Fa "SSL *ssl"
.Fa "DH *(*tmp_dh_callback)(SSL *ssl, int is_export, int keylength"
.Fc
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_set_tmp_dh "SSL *ssl" "DH *dh"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh_callback
sets the callback function for
.Fa ctx
to be used when a DH parameters are required to
.Fa tmp_dh_callback .
The callback is inherited by all
.Vt ssl
objects created from
.Fa ctx .
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh
sets DH parameters to be used to be
.Sy dh Ns  .
The key is inherited by all
.Fa ssl
objects created from
.Fa ctx .
.Pp
.Fn SSL_set_tmp_dh_callback
sets the callback only for
.Fa ssl .
.Pp
.Fn SSL_set_tmp_dh
sets the parameters only for
.Fa ssl .
.Pp
These functions apply to SSL/TLS servers only.
.Sh NOTES
When using a cipher with RSA authentication,
an ephemeral DH key exchange can take place.
Ciphers with DSA keys always use ephemeral DH keys as well.
In these cases, the session data are negotiated using the ephemeral/temporary
DH key and the key supplied and certified by the certificate chain is only used
for signing.
Anonymous ciphers (without a permanent server key) also use ephemeral DH keys.
.Pp
Using ephemeral DH key exchange yields forward secrecy,
as the connection can only be decrypted when the DH key is known.
By generating a temporary DH key inside the server application that is lost
when the application is left, it becomes impossible for an attacker to decrypt
past sessions, even if he gets hold of the normal (certified) key,
as this key was only used for signing.
.Pp
In order to perform a DH key exchange the server must use a DH group
(DH parameters) and generate a DH key.
The server will always generate a new DH key during the negotiation,
when the DH parameters are supplied via callback and/or when the
.Dv SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE
option of
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_options 3
is set.
It will immediately create a DH key, when DH parameters are supplied via
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh
and
.Dv SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE
is not set.
In this case, it may happen that a key is generated on initialization without
later being needed, while on the other hand the computer time during the
negotiation is being saved.
.Pp
If
.Dq strong
primes were used to generate the DH parameters, it is not strictly necessary to
generate a new key for each handshake but it does improve forward secrecy.
If it is not assured that
.Dq strong
primes were used (see especially the section about DSA parameters below),
.Dv SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE
must be used in order to prevent small subgroup attacks.
Always using
.Dv SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE
has an impact on the computer time needed during negotiation,
but it is not very large,
so application authors/users should consider always enabling this option.
.Pp
As generating DH parameters is extremely time consuming, an application should
not generate the parameters on the fly but supply the parameters.
DH parameters can be reused,
as the actual key is newly generated during the negotiation.
The risk in reusing DH parameters is that an attacker may specialize on a very
often used DH group.
Applications should therefore generate their own DH parameters during the
installation process using the openssl
.Xr openssl 1
application.
In order to reduce the computer time needed for this generation,
it is possible to use DSA parameters instead (see
.Xr openssl 1 ) ,
but in this case
.Dv SSL_OP_SINGLE_DH_USE
is mandatory.
.Pp
Application authors may compile in DH parameters.
Files
.Pa dh512.pem ,
.Pa dh1024.pem ,
.Pa dh2048.pem ,
and
.Pa dh4096.pem
in the
.Pa apps
directory of the current version of the OpenSSL distribution contain the
.Sq SKIP
DH parameters,
which use safe primes and were generated verifiably pseudo-randomly.
These files can be converted into C code using the
.Fl C
option of the
.Xr openssl 1
application.
Authors may also generate their own set of parameters using
.Xr openssl 1 ,
but a user may not be sure how the parameters were generated.
The generation of DH parameters during installation is therefore recommended.
.Pp
An application may either directly specify the DH parameters or can supply the
DH parameters via a callback function.
The callback approach has the advantage that the callback may supply DH
parameters for different key lengths.
.Pp
The
.Fa tmp_dh_callback
is called with the
.Fa keylength
needed and the
.Fa is_export
information.
The
.Fa is_export
flag is set when the ephemeral DH key exchange is performed with an export
cipher.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh_callback
and
.Fn SSL_set_tmp_dh_callback
do not return diagnostic output.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_set_tmp_dh
and
.Fn SSL_set_tmp_dh
do return 1 on success and 0 on failure.
Check the error queue to find out the reason of failure.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Handle DH parameters for key lengths of 512 and 1024 bits.
(Error handling partly left out.)
.Bd -literal
\&...
/* Set up ephemeral DH stuff */
DH *dh_512 = NULL;
DH *dh_1024 = NULL;
FILE *paramfile;

\&...

/* "openssl dhparam -out dh_param_512.pem -2 512" */
paramfile = fopen("dh_param_512.pem", "r");
if (paramfile) {
	dh_512 = PEM_read_DHparams(paramfile, NULL, NULL, NULL);
	fclose(paramfile);
}
/* "openssl dhparam -out dh_param_1024.pem -2 1024" */
paramfile = fopen("dh_param_1024.pem", "r");
if (paramfile) {
	dh_1024 = PEM_read_DHparams(paramfile, NULL, NULL, NULL);
	fclose(paramfile);
}

\&...

/* "openssl dhparam -C -2 512" etc... */
DH *get_dh512() { ... }
DH *get_dh1024() { ... }

DH *
tmp_dh_callback(SSL *s, int is_export, int keylength)
{
	DH *dh_tmp=NULL;

	switch (keylength) {
	case 512:
		if (!dh_512)
			dh_512 = get_dh512();
		dh_tmp = dh_512;
		break;
	case 1024:
		if (!dh_1024)
			dh_1024 = get_dh1024();
		dh_tmp = dh_1024;
		break;
	default:
		/*
		 * Generating a key on the fly is very costly,
		 * so use what is there
		 */
		setup_dh_parameters_like_above();
	}

	return(dh_tmp);
}
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr openssl 1 ,
.Xr ssl 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_cipher_list 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_options 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_tmp_rsa_callback 3
