.\"
.\"	$OpenBSD$
.\"
.Dd $Mdocdate: October 12 2014 $
.Dt SSL_CTX_SESS_NUMBER 3
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_number ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_connect ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_connect_good ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_connect_renegotiate ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_accept ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_accept_good ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_accept_renegotiate ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_hits ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_cb_hits ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_misses ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_timeouts ,
.Nm SSL_CTX_sess_cache_full
.Nd obtain session cache statistics
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.In openssl/ssl.h
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_number "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_connect "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_connect_good "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_connect_renegotiate "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_accept "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_accept_good "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_accept_renegotiate "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_hits "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_cb_hits "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_misses "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_timeouts "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Ft long
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_cache_full "SSL_CTX *ctx"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_number
returns the current number of sessions in the internal session cache.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_connect
returns the number of started SSL/TLS handshakes in client mode.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_connect_good
returns the number of successfully established SSL/TLS sessions in client mode.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_connect_renegotiate
returns the number of start renegotiations in client mode.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_accept
returns the number of started SSL/TLS handshakes in server mode.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_accept_good
returns the number of successfully established SSL/TLS sessions in server mode.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_accept_renegotiate
returns the number of start renegotiations in server mode.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_hits
returns the number of successfully reused sessions.
In client mode a session set with
.Xr SSL_set_session 3
successfully reused is counted as a hit.
In server mode a session successfully retrieved from internal or external cache
is counted as a hit.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_cb_hits
returns the number of successfully retrieved sessions from the external session
cache in server mode.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_misses
returns the number of sessions proposed by clients that were not found in the
internal session cache in server mode.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_timeouts
returns the number of sessions proposed by clients and either found in the
internal or external session cache in server mode,
but that were invalid due to timeout.
These sessions are not included in the
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_hits
count.
.Pp
.Fn SSL_CTX_sess_cache_full
returns the number of sessions that were removed because the maximum session
cache size was exceeded.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
The functions return the values indicated in the
.Sx DESCRIPTION
section.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ssl 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_sess_set_cache_size 3 ,
.Xr SSL_CTX_set_session_cache_mode 3 ,
.Xr SSL_set_session 3
