=head1 NAME

Net::FastCGI - FastCGI Toolkit

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This distribution aims to provide a complete API for working with the FastCGI
protocol.

The primary goal is to provide a function oriented and object oriented API which 
are not tied to a specific I/O model or framework.

Secondary goal is to provide higher level tools/API which can be used for debugging
and interoperability testing.

=head1 PROGRESS

The function oriented API is considered feature complete. L<Net::FastCGI::Protocol> 
provides functions to build and parse all FastCGI v1.0 messages, also provided is a 
few convenient higher level functions such as C<build_begin_request()>, 
C<build_end_request()>, C<parse_record()> and C<dump_record()>.

Work has begun on object oriented implementation and a simple blocking I/O class which is
intended for testing and debugging.

=head1 PACKAGES

=over 4

=item L<Net::FastCGI::Constant>

FastCGI protocol constants.

=item L<Net::FastCGI::IO>

Provides functions to read and write FastCGI messages.

=item L<Net::FastCGI::Protocol>

Provides functions to build and parse FastCGI messages.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

Environment variable C<NET_FASTCGI_PP> can be set to a true value before loading 
this package to disable usage of XS implementation.

=head1 PREREQUISITES

=head2 Run-Time

=over 4

=item L<perl> 5.6 or greater.

=item L<Carp>, core module.

=item L<Exporter>, core module.

=back

=head2 Build-Time

In addition to Run-Time:

=over 4

=item L<Test::More> 0.47 or greater, core module since 5.6.2.

=item L<Test::Exception>.

=item L<Test::HexString>.

=back

=head1 SEE ALSO

=head2 Community

=over 4

=item Official FastCGI site

L<http://www.fastcgi.com/>

=back

=head2 Standards

=over 4

=item FastCGI Specification Version 1.0

L<http://www.fastcgi.com/devkit/doc/fcgi-spec.html>

=item RFC 3875 - The Common Gateway Interface (CGI) Version 1.1

L<http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc3875>

=back

=head2 White papers

=over 4

=item FastCGI: A High-Performance Web Server Interface

L<http://www.fastcgi.com/devkit/doc/fastcgi-whitepaper/fastcgi.htm>

=item FastCGI - The Forgotten Treasure

L<http://cryp.to/publications/fastcgi/>

=back

=head2 Perl implementations

=over 4

=item L<AnyEvent::FCGI>

Application server implementation, built on top of L<AnyEvent>. Supports Responder role.
Capable of multiplexing.

=item L<FCGI>

Application server implementation, built on top of C<libfcgi> (reference implementation). 
Supports all FastCGI roles. Responds to management records. Processes requests synchronously.

=item L<FCGI::Async>

Application server implementation, built on top of L<IO::Async>. Supports Responder role. 
Responds to management records. Capable of multiplexing.

=item L<FCGI::Client>

Client (Web server) implementation. Supports Responder role.

=item L<FCGI::EV>

Application server implementation, built on top of L<EV>. Supports Responder role.

=item L<Mojo::Server::FastCGI>

Application server implementation. Supports Responder role. Processes requests synchronously.

=item L<POE::Component::FastCGI>

Application server implementation, built on top of L<POE>. Supports Responder role.
Capable of multiplexing.

=back

=head1 SUPPORT

Please report any bugs or feature requests to C<bug-net-fastcgi@rt.cpan.org>, or through
the web interface at L<http://rt.cpan.org/NoAuth/ReportBug.html?Queue=Net-FastCGI>

=head1 AUTHOR

Christian Hansen C<chansen@cpan.org>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2008-2010 by Christian Hansen.

This library is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify 
it under the same terms as Perl itself.

